Updates to dbt Explorer (#4537)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/collaborate/explore-multiple-projects.md

---
title: "Explore multiple projects"
sidebar_label: "Explore multiple projects"
description: "Learn about project-level lineage in dbt Explorer and its uses."
pagination_next: null
---

You can also view all the different projects and public models in the account, where the public models are defined, and how they are used to gain a better understanding about your cross-project resources.

> When viewing the resource-level lineage graph for a given project that uses cross-project references, you can see cross-project relationships represented in the DAG. The iconography is slightly different depending on whether you're viewing the lineage of an upstream producer project or a downstream consumer project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resource-level lineage graph for a given project displays the cross-project relationships in the DAG. The different icons indicate whether you’re looking at an upstream producer project (parent) or a downstream consumer project (child).
```

> When viewing an upstream (parent) project that produces public models that are imported by downstream (child) projects, public models will have a counter icon in their upper right corner that indicates the number of projects that declare the current project as a dependency. Selecting that model reveals the lineage to show the specific projects that are dependent on this model. Projects show up in this counter if they declare the parent project as a dependency in its `dependencies.yml` regardless of whether or not there's a direct `{{ ref() }}` against the public model. Selecting a project node from a public model opens the resource-level lineage graph for that project, which is subject to your permissions.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you view an upstream (parent) project, its public models display a counter icon in the upper right corner indicating how many downstream (child) projects depend on them. Selecting a model reveals the lineage indicating the projects dependent on that model. These counts include all projects listing the upstream one as a dependency in its `dependencies.yml`, even without a direct `{{ ref() }}`. Selecting a project node from a public model opens its detailed lineage graph, which is subject to your [permission](/docs/cloud/manage-access/enterprise-permissions).
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/dbt-explorer/cross-project-lineage-parent.png" width="80%" height="100" title="Cross-project lineage in a parent project"/>

When viewing a downstream (child) project that imports and refs public models from upstream (parent) projects, public models will show up in the lineage graph and display an icon on the graph edge that indicates what the relationship is to a model from another project. Hovering over this icon indicates the specific dbt Cloud project that produces that model. Double-clicking on a model from another project opens the resource-level lineage graph of the parent project, which is subject to your permissions.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/collaborate/dbt-explorer/cross-project-lineage-child.png" width="85%" height="100" title="Cross-project lineage in a child project"/>

## Explore the project-level lineage graph

> For cross-project collaboration, you can interact with the DAG in all the same ways as described in [Explore your project's lineage](#project-lineage) but you can also interact with it at the project level and view the details. 

Reviewer: this link doesnt do anything -- did you mean this link?

```suggestion
For cross-project collaboration, you can interact with the DAG in all the same ways as described in [Explore your project's lineage](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects#project-lineage) but you can also interact with it at the project level and view the details. 
```

> To get a list view of all the projects, select the account name at the top of the **Explore** page near the navigation bar. This view includes a public model list, project list, and a search bar for project searches. You can also view the project-level lineage graph by clicking the Lineage view icon in the page's upper right corner.

Reviewer: non blocker - i dont think i understand how to get to the project-level lineage graph. i don't see it on the upper right corner. is it this overview page?

![Screenshot 2023-11-28 at 06 54 58](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/aa6e56a6-a55c-45e7-b7a0-c25a93cc5ee8)

Author: chatted with mirna about this during our 1-1. resolving.

If you have permissions for a project in the account, you can view all public models used across the entire account. However, you can only view full public model details and private models if you have permissions for a project where the models are defined.

From the project-level lineage graph, you can:

- Click the Lineage view icon (in the graph’s upper right corner) to view the cross-project lineage graph.
- Click the List view icon (in the graph’s upper right corner) to view the project list.
    - Select a project from the **Projects** tab to switch to that project’s main **Explore** page.

>     - Select a model from the **Public Models** tab to view the [model’s details page](#view-resource-details).

Reviewer: updating link
```suggestion
    - Select a model from the **Public Models** tab to view the [model’s details page](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects#view-resource-details).
```
